Created: 24-04-2022 13:45
Status: #summary #done
Tags: [[Startup]] [[Books]]

# The Lean Startup - Eric Ries
- A startup constitutes high uncertainty compared to a business, where success is accurately modeled and dependent purely on execution.
- [[The Innovator's Dilemma - Clayton Christensten]] describes sustaining innovation vs disruptive innovation. Corporate is good at incremental improvements to existing products and at serving existing customers, but struggles to create breakthroughs that can create new sustainable sources of growth in itself.
- Even though Agile is a waste-reduction practice, building a product that nobody wants with it is still a waste.
- Validated learning is backed up by empirical data collected from real customers.
- Learn what the customers really want early and adjust the strategy to meet their desires.
- Adopt the approach of "Should this product be built?" and "Can we build a sustainable business model around this set of products and services?".
- Break down a business plan into its component parts and test each part empirically. The scientific method is needed - everything a startup does is treated as an experiment designed to achieved validated learning: every product, feature, marketing campaign.
- A company learns much more by building a simple product than by asking potential consumers what they want.
- Success is not delivering a feature; success is learning how to solve the customer's problem.
- Setting an experiment, getting feedback, adapting to the changing markets.
- Minimize time in the Build-Measure-Learn feedback loop instead of trying to maximizing a vanity KPI.
- The value hypothesis and the growth hypothesis are the most important assumptions for the scientific method. Once assumptions are set, enter the Build phase ASAP with an MVP.
- The actual design process happens in the reverse order. Decide what you want to learn, design how you will measure it to achieve validated learning, design MVP for that experiment and measurement.
- Seeing what happens is guaranteed to give success - in seeing what happens.
- Value hypothesis - product or service valiating the assumption of need by a customer segment.
  Growth hypothesis - customer segment or market having a natural (viral) growth engine.
- Test the assumptions as early as possible.
- Don't focus on feature development. Focus on story development instead. Until validated learning is achieved, the story is in the works. Principle of Kanban. This changes the mindset of measuring productivity in terms of validated learning and not the number of features shipped.
- A's of meaningful metrics: actionable, accessible, auditable. Cause-effect is an actionable metric, others are vanity metrics. Use data to get genuine feedback instead of cherrypicking for what supports your actions/plans. Construct simple people-based reports with clear units. Use of autogenerated daily report newsletter in plain English, sent to all employees. Use of the reports as product arguments. For reports to work, to rely on and to settle arguments, they must be consistent with reality that's checked by speaking with customers. It also helps gain insight into why customers behave in the way that data indicates.
- Pivots put a startup on the rails of a sustainable business.
- Often to become sustainable, a business needs to do a customer segment pivot without necessarily changing the underlying product.
- When you pivot from the original idea, the effort is not wasted, it let you generate the current understanding, client base, expertise and domain knowledge.
- It is about repurposing what you have built and learned to find a more positive direction.
- The ability to learn faster from customers is the essential competitive advantage that startups must possess.
- Lean production techniques are a manifestation of a high-functioning organization that is committed to achieving maximum performance by employing the right measures of progress over the long term.
- Process is only a foundation on which a great company culture can develop.
- The Lean Startup works only if we are able to build an organization as adaptable and fast as the challenges it faces.
- Sustainable growth - new customers come from the actions of past customers.
- Startups have to focus on the big experiments that lead to validated learning.
- Pivoting to achieve product market fit is not a failure, same as achieving product market fit is not a vaccine against pivoting.
- Every engine of growth eventually runs out of gas and needs a pivot to continue growing.
- Build the MVP in a way that does not contain additional features beyond what's required by early adopters.
- Companies need to manage a portfolio of activities, simultaneously tuning their engine of growth and developing new sources of growth for when that engine inevitably runs its course. Adaptive organization is needed for that.
- Adopting the split-the-difference managerial approach facilitates extreme polarization in the team since boths sides will adopt a more extreme view to drive the compromise closer to their desire position, knowing that the manager will pick the solution in between. That drives the two ends of the camp farther apart. Although it was not the management's intent to reward extreme polarization, it was the result of the approach.
- Build a training program for new hires. It requires huge efforts to standardize the work processes and to prepare the curriculum the employees should learn, but it makes them productive from day one and lets them contribute at a high level only several weeks in. Every new hire is assigned a mentor, which helps the hire to work through the curriculum that is needed to become productive.
- The training program evolved organically out of a methodical approach to evolving our own process. The process was subject to constant experimentation and revision to ensure it grew more effective.
- An adaptive organization is one that automatically adjusts its processes and performance to current conditions.
- To work, startups need built-in speed regulators that help teams find their optimal pace of work.
- If you let quality suffer at the gain of time, it will cost you more time overtime.
- Make incremental investments in the training program and evolve the startup's processes gradually. Use five Why's. The process ties investments directly to the prevention of the most problematic symptoms.
- At the root of every technical problem is a human problem. Repeating "Why?" five times can help uncover the root problem and correct it.
- By incremental improvement, hence incremental investment, to the training curriculum incremental benefits have been reaped, which progressively reved the downtime or the slowdown, which freed up time and energy tied into crisis correction.
- Instead of blaming the hire for braking the system, we would treat it as a shame on us for making it so fragile and have them lead the effort to fix the problem and to prevent the next person from repeating their mistake.
- Be tolerant to all mistakes the first time; never allow the same mistake to be made twice. First makes teams compassionate to mistakes; the second gets teams to proportionally invest in prevention.
- Baggage issues come up as the result of Five Whys. If they don't they might be not as big as they seem.
- QuickBooks trashed the annual batch release process in favor of idea/code/solution jams with engineers, product managers, and customers together, at the beginning of the year instead of a well-defined product release list. That helps create a pipeline of ideas generated as the result of need, feedback, and collaboration since the inception of each concept.
- Large companies that work in batches prefer to have the freedom to sacrifice team's ability to learn at the gain of working more efficiently - isolated across roles.
- As Lean Startups grow, they can use adaptive techniques to develop more complex processes without compromising the speed of the feedback loop. Lean startups are well-positioned to develop operational excellence, as they mature, based on lean principles because they have already acquired the discipline and established the adaptive framework.
- Because of the pace of the industry, startups are not well thought of to go through discrete phases. New sources of growth must be found through disruptive innovation or be prepared to lose market lead.
- Each company must thus juggle operational excellence and disruptive innovation.
- Different customer segments can be catered for with tiered pricing/offering.
- If you fail to re-create and sustain the culture that led to the innovation in the first place, you will be unable to innovate and will inevitably loose market position.
## Further Resources
1. andrewchenblog.com
2. angel.co
3. Clayton Christensen's:
	1. The Innovator's Dilemma.
	2. The Innovator's Solution.
	3. The Innovator's Prescription.
	4. Disrupting Class.
4. Dealing with Darwin by Geoffrey Moore.
## References
1. Ries, E. (2011). _The Lean Startup: How Today’s Entrepreneurs Use Continuous Innovation to Create Radically Successful Businesses_ (1st Edition). Currency.